docs/API.md, before:

# HttPlaceholder REST API

Like many other automation and development tools, HttPlaceholder has a REST API that you can use to automate the creation of stubs. By default, the stubs are stored in memory and are thereby cleared when HttPlaceholder restarts (you can persist the stubs and request; see [config](CONFIG.md)). The REST API gives you access to four collections: the stubs collection, the requests collection (to see all requests that are made to HttPlaceholder), users collection and tenants collection.

Click [here](https://github.com/dukeofharen/httplaceholder/releases/latest) if you want the swagger.json file. Using this swagger.json file, you can easily create a REST client for your favourite programming language (e.g. using a tool like [autorest](https://github.com/Azure/autorest))

## General

The REST API accepts both JSON and YAML strings (when doing a POST or PUT). If you want to post a YAML string, set the `Content-Type` header to `application/x-yaml`, if you want to post a JSON string, set the `Content-Type` header to `application/json`. If you do a request where you expect a textual response, set the `Accept` header to `application/x-yaml` if you want to get YAML or `application/json` if you want to get JSON.

If you have enabled authentication (see [CONFIG.md](CONFIG.md) for more information), you also need to provide an `Authorization` header with the correct basic authentication. So if, for example, the username is `user` and the password is `pass`, the following value should be used for the `Authorization` header: `Basic dXNlcjpwYXNz`. For every call in the REST API, a `401 Unauthorized` is returned if the authentication is incorrect.

### Stubs

A stub is a combination of condition checkers and response writers that will be executed when a valid request is sent.

### Requests

Any kind of HTTP request that is made against HttPlaceholder. Also requests where no stub could be matched are saved, because you might want to create a stub based on that request.

### Users

A simple collection to check whether a given user is valid or not.

### Tenants

Tenants allow you to group your stubs. When you've assigned a "tenant" field to your stub (see [conditions](CONDITIONS.md) for more information), you can perform batch operations on a larger set of stubs. The tenants endpoint helps you with this.

Commit message:

Added better installation instructions (#46)
* Small change in Docker Compose file comments

* Added separate installation instruction pages for Linux and Mac

* Added separate instruction page for Windows / IIS hosting and made some config / documentation changes

* Added Vagrant instructions

* Fixed INSTALL.md file

* Added extra example to API.md

* Removed todo items from readme

* Fixed sentence in CONDITIONS.md

Co-authored-by: Duco <git@ducode.org>

docs/API.md, after:

# HttPlaceholder REST API

Like many other automation and development tools, HttPlaceholder has a REST API that you can use to automate the creation of stubs. By default, the stubs are stored in memory and are thereby cleared when HttPlaceholder restarts (you can persist the stubs and request; see [config](CONFIG.md)). The REST API gives you access to four collections: the stubs collection, the requests collection (to see all requests that are made to HttPlaceholder), users collection and tenants collection.

Click [here](https://github.com/dukeofharen/httplaceholder/releases/latest) if you want the swagger.json file. Using this swagger.json file, you can easily create a REST client for your favourite programming language (e.g. using a tool like [autorest](https://github.com/Azure/autorest)).

The [Postman collection](samples/requests.json) also contains REST API examples.

## General

The REST API accepts both JSON and YAML strings (when doing a POST or PUT). If you want to post a YAML string, set the `Content-Type` header to `application/x-yaml`, if you want to post a JSON string, set the `Content-Type` header to `application/json`. If you do a request where you expect a textual response, set the `Accept` header to `application/x-yaml` if you want to get YAML or `application/json` if you want to get JSON.

If you have enabled authentication (see [config](CONFIG.md) for more information), you also need to provide an `Authorization` header with the correct basic authentication. So if, for example, the username is `user` and the password is `pass`, the following value should be used for the `Authorization` header: `Basic dXNlcjpwYXNz`. For every call in the REST API, a `401 Unauthorized` is returned if the authentication is incorrect.

### Stubs

A stub is a combination of condition checkers and response writers that will be executed when a valid request is sent.

### Requests

Any kind of HTTP request that is made against HttPlaceholder. Also requests where no stub could be matched are saved, because you might want to create a stub based on that request.

### Users

A simple collection to check whether a given user is valid or not.

### Tenants

Tenants allow you to group your stubs. When you've assigned a "tenant" field to your stub (see [conditions](CONDITIONS.md) for more information), you can perform batch operations on a larger set of stubs. The tenants endpoint helps you with this.
